Add fb sym docs (#1019)
pace-neutrons/Horace: documentation/user_docs/docs/manual/Symmetrising_etc.rst

Commands for cuts and slices
============================

In Horace it is possible to symmetrise both whole S(**Q**, w)s and also to symmetrise cuts to extract data as though the
S(**Q**, w) had been symmetrised without the overhead of transforming all pixels, only those that might contribute to
the result.

Symmetric cuts
--------------

In order to do a symmetrised cut, the ordinary ``cut`` function (see :ref:cut) is used with the appropriate symmetry
operations additionally passed into the function as an argument after the bin axes specification (see example
below). The ``cut`` operation will then use the symmetry operations to compute the transformations of the given
projection, accumulate the symmetrically-related pixels into the primary binning axes and transform their pixel
coordinates according to the symmetry operations as though the S(**Q**, w) had been wholly symmetrised.

::

   >> w1 = sqw(data);
   >> sym = SymopReflection([0 1 0], [0 0 1]);

   % Cut from 1 to 3 in X, accumulated with -1 to -3 reflected across the X-axis
   >> w2 = cut(w1, ortho_proj([1 0 0], [0 1 0]), [1 0.1 3], [-inf inf], [-inf inf], [-inf inf], sym);

>    >> w3 = cut(w1, ortho_proj([1 0 0], [0 1 0]), [1 0.1 3], [1 0.1 3], [-inf inf], [-inf inf], sym)

Author: May be worth saying what ortho_proj is doing (which is here a standard XYZ projection, so doing nothing?)

For w3, you do not say what the additional cut interval in Y is doing.

Symmetrise entire SQW

> =====================

Author: as noted above, may be worth putting this section before the cut one

``symmetrise_sqw``
------------------

It is possible to reduce an entire dataset at once by symmetry, transforming all pixels according to the symmetry
operations and accumulating the transformed pixels into the bins appropriately. This is done through the

> ``symmetrise_sqw`` function, the signature for which is below:

Author: Reduce makes some sense for a reflection, less clear for a rotation. Please explain

::

   >> w1 = sqw(data);
   >> sym = SymopReflection([0 1 0], [0 0 1]); % Reflect about X-axis
   >> w2 = symmetrise_sqw(w1, sym);

It is also possible to reduce data through a rotationally symmetric operation, this can be done in one of 2 ways:

::

   >> w1 = sqw(data);

>    >> sym = SymopRotation([0 0 1], 60);  % Perform a 6-fold symmetric roation about Z

Author: ```suggestion
   >> sym = SymopRotation([0 0 1], 60);  % Perform a 6-fold symmetric rotation about Z
```

>    >> w2 = symmetrise(w1, sym);

Author: so is this reduction to a 1/6th wedge, or just a rotation?

   >> sym = SymopRotation.fold(6, [0 0 1]); % Same as above
   >> w3 = symmetrise(w1, sym);
   >> equal_to_tol(w2, w3);

     ans =

       logical

        1

A ``SymopRotation`` attempts to map the data into the positive quadrant (though for angle > 90 degrees | folds < 4, this

> will fill the positive quadrant and spill into a negative domain).

Author: this may answer some of my questions above, and if so should be put earlier when describing symoprotation.

This spilling into a negative domain sounds pathological; avoid or fix?

``gen_sqw``
-----------

> If you need to symmetrise a large ``sqw`` object, it can be done during ``sqw`` generation, i.e. during generation of

Author: ```suggestion
If you need to symmetrise a large ``sqw`` object, it can also be done during ``sqw`` generation, i.e. during generation of
```

> the ``sqw`` file. The ``gen_sqw`` function has a special option ``transform_sqw`` which can be used with any method,

Author: ```suggestion
the ``sqw`` file, ratherthan after the object has been created. The ``gen_sqw`` function has a special option ``transform_sqw`` which can be used with any method,
```

or, more generally:

::

   gen_sqw (spefile, par_file, sym_sqw_file, efix, emode, alatt, angdeg,...  u, v, psi, omega, dpsi, gl,
            gs, 'transform_sqw', @user_symmetrisation_routine)

where ``spefile``, ``par_file``, etc... are the options used during initial *sqw* file generation (see :ref:`Generating
SQW files <manual/Generating_SQW_files:Generating SQW files>`). The first ``gen_sqw`` would build a ``.sqw`` file
reflected as in the example for the reflection above. In the second, more general, case the user defined function (in a
``.m``-file on the Matlab path) can define multiple symmetrisation operations that are applied sequentially to the entire
data. An example is as follows, which folds a cubic system so that all eight of the symmetrically equivalent (1,0,0)
type positions are folded on to each other:

::

   function wout = user_symmetrisation_routine(win)

   wout=symmetrise_sqw(win, SymopReflection([1,1,0], [0,0,1]));%fold about line (1,1,0) in HK plane
   wout=symmetrise_sqw(wout,SymopReflection([-1,1,0],[0,0,1]));%fold about line (-1,1,0) in HK plane
   wout=symmetrise_sqw(wout,SymopReflection([1,0,1], [0,1,0]));%fold about line (1,0,1) in HL plane

>    wout=symmetrise_sqw(wout,SymopReflection([1,0,-1],[0,1,0]));%fold about line (1,0,-1) in HL plane

Author: - missing end on the end
- can the symopreflections not be combined in an array and put into a single call to symmetrise_sqw? If not, should probably be commented on

**Note 1**: When defining the function to apply the symmetrisation (as above) one can ONLY use

>  symmetrisation operations, given by ``symmetrise_sqw``. Any other transformations may modify the data ranges in

Author: ```suggestion
``symmetrise_sqw`` to perform the  symmetrisation operations. Any other transformations may modify the data ranges in
```

Symmetrise data, then unfold back to original range
===================================================

**N.B.** For producing plots only, any analysis on these results will be invalid due to double / treble / etc. counting
 of data.

Below we show a script that uses the ``symmetrise_sqw`` and ``combine_sqw`` commands to fold a dataset and then
unfold. In the example we have a constant energy slice in the (h,k)-plane which we fold twice to obtain the positive
quadrant. We then unfold the result in the opposite direction and combine with the positive quadrant, then unfold this
and combine. This produces an image which covers all four quadrants with suitably folded versions of just one of the

> quadrants.

Author: I have not grasped what the result here is. What is duplicated, and what is just moved?

Also, the use of fold here is confusing with respect to a rotational nfold. Do you have an alternative description?

Horace allows basic correction of scattering intensity from simple ions by adjusting it by the magnetic form factor
according to formulas provided in International Tables of Crystallography, Vol C. (see, for example `here
<https://www.ill.eu/sites/ccsl/ffacts/ffachtml.html>`__)

The class ``MagneticIons`` contains the tables of fitting parameters, used to calculate changes in scattering intensity
due to changes in magnetic form factor and defines the method ``correct_mag_ff``, which takes an ``sqw`` object as input
and returns a similar object, with intensities adjusted by the magnetic form factor:

::

   mff = MagneticIons('Fe0');
   w2_fixed = mff.correct_mag_ff(w2);

Where 'Fe0' is the name of the ion for which the magnetic form factor is calculated. **This method should be applied
only once**.

The auxiliary ``MagneticIons``'s method ``IonNames`` returns the cell array of ion names, which are currently tabulated in
Horace and for which scattering can be corrected using the expression above. Additional ``MagneticIons`` methods
``calc_mag_ff`` and ``apply_mag_ff`` allow one to calculate magnetic form factor on or apply magnetic form factor to the

> dataset provided.

Author: really unclear why this is included in the symmetrisation. Sounds as if it should be in a separate doc of its own

Commands for entire datasets
============================

**For application of symmetry operations to the entire sqw file when it is being generated, see** :ref:`above
 <manual/Symmetrising_etc:Symmetrise entire SQW>`

It is possible to make a new ``.sqw`` data file that has had a specified symmetrisation performed on it for a certain
data range. You specify which Brillouin zone you are interested in, and then tell Horace which Brillouin zones are
symmetrically equivalent to this one. Data are then cut from all of these zones and combined with the data from your
original choice. The result is output to a new file. For example:

::

   transf_list=combine_equivalent_zones(data_source,proj,pos,qstep,erange,outfile);

where ``data_source`` is the master .sqw file, ``proj`` is the projection structure array (the same format as that used

> for ``cut_sqw``), ``pos`` is a 3-element vector [h,k,l] specifying the Brillouin zone of interest. ``qstep`` is a single

Author: how does hkl specify a BZ?

number specifying the desired step size along h, k, and l of the 4-dimensional output object ``wout``. ``erange`` is a

> 3-element vector specifying [lo,step,hi] for the energy range to be cut. Finally, ``outfile`` is the .sqw filename

Author: why is this only outputting to a file, not to an object?

(including path and .sqw extension) where the symmetrised data will be saved. ``transf_list`` is the cell array of

> ``cut_transf`` classes where each element describes a transformation, applied to particular zone. Note that the output

Author: ```suggestion
``cut_transf`` classes where each element describes a transformation applied to a particular zone. Note that the output
```
